# Contributing to Promhippie

Welcome! Our community focuses on helping others and making this project the
best it can be. We gladly accept contributions and encourage you to get
involved!

## Bug reports

Please search the issues on the issue tracker with a variety of keywords to
ensure your bug is not already reported.

If unique, [open an issue][issues] and
answer the questions so we can understand and reproduce the problematic
behavior.

The burden is on you to convince us that it is actually a bug in our project.
This is easiest to do when you write clear, concise instructions so we can
reproduce the behavior (even if it seems obvious). The more detailed and
specific you are, the faster we will be able to help you. Check out
[How to Report Bugs Effectively][bugreport].

Please be kind, remember that this project comes at no cost to you, and you're
getting free help.

## Check for assigned people

We are using Github Issues for submitting known issues, e.g. bugs, features,
etc. Some issues will have someone assigned, meaning that there's already
someone that takes responsibility for fixing said issue. This is not done to
discourage contributions, rather to not step in the work that has already been
done by the assignee. If you want to work on a known issue with someone already
assigned to it, please consider contacting the assignee first, e.g. by
mentioning the assignee in a new comment on the specific issue. This way you can
contribute with ideas, or even with code if the assignee decides that you can
step in.

If you plan to work on a non assigned issue, please add a comment on the issue
to prevent duplicated work.

## Minor improvements and new tests

Submit pull requests at any time for minor changes or new tests. Make sure to
write tests to assert your change is working properly and is thoroughly covered.
We'll ask most pull requests to be squashed, especially with small commits.

Your pull request may be thoroughly reviewed. This is because if we accept the
PR, we also assume responsibility for it, although we would prefer you to help
maintain your code after it gets merged.

## Mind the Style

We believe that in order to have a healthy codebase we need to abide to a
certain code style. We use `gofmt` with Go and `eslint` with Javascript for this
matter, which are tools that has proved to be useful. So, before submitting your
pull request, make sure that `gofmt` and if viable `eslint` are passing for you.

Finally, note that `gofmt` and if viable `eslint` are called on the CI system.
This means that your pull request will not be merged until the changes are
approved.

## Update the Changelog

We keep a changelog in the `CHANGELOG.md` file. This is useful to understand
what has changed between each version. When you implement a new feature, or a
fix for an issue, please also update the `CHANGELOG.md` file accordingly. We
don't follow a strict style for the changelog, just try to be consistent with
the rest of the file.

## Sign your work

The sign-off is a simple line at the end of the explanation for the patch. Your
signature certifies that you wrote the patch or otherwise have the right to pass
it on as an open-source patch. The rules are pretty simple: If you can certify
[DCO](./DCO), then you just add a line to every git commit message:

```console
Signed-off-by: Joe Smith <joe.smith@example.com>
```

Please use your real name, we really dislike pseudonyms or anonymous
contributions. We are in the opensource world without secrets. If you set your
`user.name` and `user.email` git configs, you can sign your commit automatically
with `git commit -s`.

## Collaborator status

If your pull request is merged, congratulations! You're technically a
collaborator. We may also grant you "collaborator status" which means you can
push to the repository and merge other pull requests. We hope that you will stay
involved by reviewing pull requests, submitting more of your own, and resolving
issues as you are able to. Thanks for making this project amazing!

We ask that collaborators will conduct thorough code reviews and be nice to new
contributors. Before merging a PR, it's best to get the approval of at least one
or two other collaborators and/or the project owner. We prefer squashed commits
instead of many little, semantically-unimportant commits. Also, CI and other
post-commit hooks must pass before being merged except in certain unusual
circumstances.

Collaborator status may be removed for inactive users from time to time as we
see fit; this is not an insult, just a basic security precaution in case the
account becomes inactive or abandoned. Privileges can always be restored later.

**Reviewing pull requests:** Please help submit and review pull requests as you
are able! We would ask that every pull request be reviewed by at least one
collaborator who did not open the pull request before merging. This will help
ensure high code quality as new collaborators are added to the project.

## Vulnerabilities

If you've found a vulnerability that is serious, please email to
thomas@webhippie.de. If it's not a big deal, a pull request will probably be
faster.

## Thank you

Thanks for your help! This project would not be what it is today without your
contributions.

[issues]: https://github.com/promhippie/hetzner_exporter/issues
[bugreport]: http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/bugs.html
